				=======
				Support
				=======

    There is no official support for this software.  However, I intend to
improve upon it and provide informal support for it as time permits.  I do have
a full time job, so this work must take a back seat.  If you are interested in
paying for support, contact me and we can see if we can come to an agreeable
arrangement.

    At the end of this file, I will place the information on where to contact
me.  If I do not receive too much junk email, then this information should
remain valid indefinitely.  If, for any reason, I must change email accounts,
I appologize for the inconvenience.


============
MAILING LIST
============

    If you are interested in being notified of updates or changes of address,
please send me a brief email message indicating this and where to contact
you by email.  No paper mail will be provided.


===============
CONFIDENTIALITY
===============

    Any and all information you send to me will be kept in complete confidence
unless you indicate otherwise.  I strongly dislike junk email, and I will do
all that I can to prevent it.


=============
BUG REPORTING
=============

    When reporting a bug, please be sure to include the information on the
version of this software, which is specified in the Version file in the doc
subdirectory, as well as any and all changes from the original source tree.
Changes include, but are not limited to, changed compiler options, modified
source code, and additional compiler options.  Also, please note the version
of the kernel you are working with.  Of course, include a description of the
problem, and any information about the circumstances surrounding the
occurrance of the problem.

	SUMMARY OF NECESSARY INFORMATION:

		- version of this software (doc/Version)
		- modifications to this software or its default configuration
		- version of the kernel (uname -r)
		- description of problem
		- other pertinent information (such as all mount options used)


=============
CONTACTING ME
=============

    In order to contact me, send email to the following address.  You may try
to use the newsgroups, but I do not browse them too often, so your best bet is
to send me email or to visit my web site.

	email: ovlfs@cc91339-a.ewndsr1.nj.home.com
	web:   http://home.att.net/~artnaseef

	backup email: artnaseef@worldnet.att.net

Please note that I rarely check the email at worldnet anymore because it is a
hassle to do so; I am now connected to the internet by cable modem.  Also,
due to the wording of the cable modem contract, please do not browse the
server, cc91339-a.ewndsr1.nj.home.com; it is setup for my personal use and
there is no useful information on that site that can not be obtained from the
home.att.net site.  I appreciate your consideration in this matter.

[version @(#) Support 1.3]
